Git is a distributed version control,
which is much, much different,
at one point in time, we used to have
a centralized version control system.
Which meant that I would check out file A,
and if I happened to go on vacation,
you could just never edit file A, that was
mine, it's mine until I check it back in.
And this is most people's development
style up until until we started having
distributed versions.
There's a bunch of different kind of
iterations on distributed version
controls, but
git seems to be the most popular,
I think at one point Linus got
really angry and wrote it.
I'm sure it has some very similar
JavaScript-like story where in 10 days out
came the greatest version control ever,
right?
I don't know the actual behind the scenes
story other than it came out right
around like 2005 ish.
So it's not that new but
it's also not that old comparatively,
the thing that's awesome about git
is that you have your version,
your version doesn't have to represent
the reality of some remote version.
It's just your version until you wish
to update it to you wish to save,
and so that will that's what makes git so
dang good.
In git there's two levels of commands,
there's the porcelain commands and
then the plumbing commands,
I think they're probably going for
an image of a toilet,
maybe a bathtub or a sink.
I'm not really sure why they chose to
go with that, I would have probably
chosen something a little bit more
elegant, but anyways, here we are.
We're gonna to go over mostly
porcelain commands, but
we will get down to the plumbing.
We will try to understand how git works
and hopefully the big takeaway from this
course is that you understand
how git's data structure works.
So that way, you don't feel confused
when you use it, when you use rebase or
you revert or
you cherry-pick any of those things.
You understand how these things work and
therefore it's simple,
nothing hard about it.
Some key terms,
I'm gonna use the term repo,
a repo simply means a project
tracked by git, it's a folder, or
I use folder because I grew up with
Windows, that's just how it works.
It's a directory on some of,
some people call it a directory and
are offended when I use the term folder.
Either way you'll see me use those two
terms but, a repo is just simply something
with a git folder in it, that means
it's being tracked actively by git.
If you're on Windows,
I don't know exactly how it looks,
if you're on just actual Windows,
not WSL2.
And so I assume, it's probably the same
thing some sort of hidden folder that
exists on Windows that tracks
all your stuff, I don't know.
A commit is just simply a point in time
representing the project in its entirety,
now for those that are somewhat familiar
with git that might be a bit surprising.
You probably think that
it stores differentials,
it's here's from one change to the next,
no.
Every single commit is
the entirety of the code base, and
it can be regenerated from that one and
single commit.
So, kind of always a little bit of
a shocker, and a commits are often denoted
by a 40 character a through f 0
through 9 hexadecimal kind of string.
And that's gonna be based off
the contents of the change, the author,
the time, everything.
I'll often use the term index, this can be
kind of interchangeably used with staging,
staging is the area in which you
prepare the changes you wish to commit.
And when you commit anything
in the staging area or
the index will be committed, so
if you have un staged items they won't
be committed they'll remain red.
That's why you can kinda of pick one file
to commit, not the other one, it's because
there is a staging area, and here's
a nice little thing from the GitHub blog.
I think this does probably a better
job than I did, I'll probably toss out
the term squash at point,
which really means to take a commit or
to take two commits and
turn it into one commit.
That's squashing it by one level,
you can take n commits and
turn it into n minus 1 or less commits,
that would be an act of squashing.
If I say the term work tree, working tree,
main working tree, this is your git repo,
you'll see it a lot in the documentation,
this term working tree all the time.
Working tree is just the fancy term for
your stuff,
it's what is being tracked by git and
has some sort of history in it.
I'll use the term untracked,
staged, and tracked,
I could use effectively,
let's go to xcali draw for a quick second.
But the easiest way to describe it is that
the at some point when you're using git,
there exists all of your files, right?
You haven't done anything, you haven't
added it, this is the untracked kind of
region, then at some point, you're
going to want to start tracking them.
And so you track them by adding
them to the index, and so
that's why when I say staging,
this is what I mean by that.
Let me get a better color, let's call it,
I guess brown, we'll go with brown,
that's a pretty nice color,
so this is your staging area.
Staging is just simply get being ready,
and this is always every single flow
you'll ever have, you'll have some sort
of untracked file that becomes staging.
And then once it becomes staging, it's
gonna go one more time when you commit,
and then it's fully tracked
by git with a history.
And so it's kind of a three step
process anytime you're using git, and
you should just have this in your head,
this is kind of the process you'll have.
And so if you don't have this
kinda picture in your head,
I think you'll find git to be more
difficult, you have not tracked,
I'm tracking, but I'm not committed.
I'm committed, and long as you kinda look
at it in that way, it will make sense.
Once you've added a file,
then you get new possibilities because
git know that it already exists,
so when you add a change, you're in
this tracked but not staged cycle.
Makes things a little bit easier to think
about if you just always keep that picture
in your head, all right, and
then let's say we've already talked
about all three of those, so fantastic.
Some key facts about git is
that git is an acyclic graph,
if you don't want an acyclic graph,
take free data structures course
on front-end masters, am I right?
Everybody, front-end
masters.com/courses/algorithms,
you may have heard of it,
it's pretty fantastic.
In git, every commit is a node in
the graph, and each pointer is a child
parent relationship, meaning that you
can have more than one parent, but
you cannot have a cycle in the graph.
I wouldn't even know how you would
commit a cycle in the graph,
it just doesn't even make any sense.
If you delete untracked files, they
are just lost forever, that is your bad,
there's that hilarious GitHub post.
Where someone yells about losing 5,000
files because they didn't realize that
if you don't have something tracked,
it will go bye-bye forever.
So make sure you know that about git,
if you delete a file, that could be it,
goodbye, second, always man git dash,
start there, read the friendly manual.
Most of it's pretty good, some of it still
sucks, I actually don't even understand,
when I read a man git dash tag,
I still don't really know what's
happening when I read it.
It's kind of, it just,
it feels strange to read, so
sometimes you gotta go on the internet,
but for the most part it's pretty good.
I know that a lot of you probably
just have these five commands.
Who here, has more than those
five commands just right here?
Okay, we're looking at about 50%,
maybe, maybe 50-ish percent, so this
is kind of the typical git experience,
push, pull, add, commit, and status.
You don't know anything else, and
you use it until it messes up, and
then you go on the internet,
and someone suggested ref log.
You don't know what happened, use ref log
and somehow everything sort of is fixed,
but you have this deep dark feeling,
that one day you'll do it again.
And it's just right around the corner and
it's probably rebase right?
It's probably involving rebase someone
told you to do that and I hate your life,
that is a, just life.
Fetch could be in here as well, but
it's fetch still, anyways, everything else
mysterious painful in this course my goal
is either you have zero knowledge or
around that knowledge.
And we want to take it a step further to
where you can use most features of git
easily.
The reality is if you're comfortable with
rebase, re-re-re-ref-log-log, catfile,
config, and reset,
this course might not be for you.
Just real talk, if you're already
pretty that far into git,
I don't think you're gonna get
a whole bunch out of this.
And so, I don't want you to get your hopes
up that we're actually gonna be making
git, we're gonna be going over it and
making you practically useful.
Because the hardest part about working on
a job is usually never the code itself,
it's the poor decisions you've
made in the past about the code.
And then second, working with some sort
of version control with everybody else.
So once you get past that first part about
you being a bad programmer, don't worry,
I'm a bad programmer too,
we're all bad programmers.
But after that, it's just being able to be
effective with 40 people all committing
to one codebase and
there's a lot of strategy there.
And the worst part is when you have to
revert, and no one has a git policy, and
it becomes impossible to revert
your change due to merge commits.
How many different little tiny
commits that are all interleaved, and
it becomes a nightmare, so
we're gonna to hopefully have some sort
of sense about git by the end of this